It's crazy how to mimic human neurochemistry so well. What's up guys, my name is Eamon from the Nootropic Republic. In this episode we're going to explore 7,8-dehydroxyflavon, 7,8-DHF. My biggest question with this compound is, is it safe and is it effective? So I delved into the research, I did a lot of experimenting by myself. I looked at anecdotes, I looked at this, I looked at that. And except before we get into any of that, like what is 7,8-DHF? Why do you care about it? Why should you care about it? I did a video on it previously, except it's come to my light just due to Reddit and talking with friends about how effective 7,8-DHF is. It's a flavorone that almost perfectly mimics BDNF in the brain. You can liken it to a herbal C-Max, where it's a very similar method of action. The way that it does is, is it stimulates the TRKB receptors in almost the exact same way that BDNF stimulates these receptors, producing a very similar effect. And that's why this compound is so interesting, because essentially it is just BDNF. It's like, if you're low dopamine, you can take a dopamine precursor like L-tyrosine. And now if you're low BDNF, you can take a BDNF precursor in a way like 7,8-DHF. So BDNF is a brain protein that's very important for the maintenance and creation of new neurons in the brain, as well as many other things. Some of the benefits of high BDNF is improved synaptogenesis, improved neurogenesis, so the creation of new cells and synapses. It helps prevent cell death, it improves cognitive function, and lowers the risk of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. BDNF is crucial for learning, memory, focus, and installing new habits. And that's why BDNF is really important for breaking old habits and addictions, and can be used very effectively in that manner. What's also very interesting is, in my research lately, I found that BDNF can actually upregulate acetylcholine, as well as it being very crucial for repairing the dopamine system. So right now there's two different forms of 7,8-DHF. So there's 7,8-dehydroxyflavon, which I know is a mouthful, and then there's 4-DMA 7,8-dehydroxyflavon. They're the exact same compound, except 4-DMA just has an extra D-methylamino group attached to it, so it's more bioavailable and effective. Just a little side note as well, taking multiple flavonoids or flavons together increases the bioavailability of them, because they all compete with each other for metabolization. So if you take multiple at once, they won't get metabolized as quickly, so you'll experience more of their effects, and they'll be more potent. 4-DMA is very interesting, because people say it's a life-changing compound, which people throw that around, this and that. People say it's on the same strength of Adderall for its ability to improve focus. So which one of these compounds is better? So 7,8-DHF is something that's more subtle. You probably notice its benefits the more you take it. If you take it subliminally underneath the tongue, you'll experience acute effects from it, except it's something that's more mild and stimulating, very similar to egg mutine sulfate. Where 4-DMA, you're going to definitely feel its effects. Its effects are going to be very immediate. Some people almost find it a bit too stimulating, and its effect profile lasts around six to eight hours, and it's very long-lasting, it's very potent, it synergizes with a lot of substances. I thought it would be fun to record some of my experiences with these compounds, so I shot little vlogs. So here you go. I just took 7,8-DHF, and basically what it feels like, it just feels like you have a sense of optimism, and your mood is a bit better, you're hopeful for the future, and you just go about your day with a good mood and a smile on your face. I've noticed that it helps me be more creative. I also find it just helps my brain work a little bit better, where I can remember things easier, and I can be a bit more focused easier. The focus attribute about it is kind of unique, because you just notice that your senses are sharper, you know what I mean, like you're just more there. It's kind of a very unique compound in the way that it mimics BDNF perfectly. It's crazy how it mimics human neurochemistry so well. So 4-DMA, 7-ADHF, I took it today. Basically what you notice is you just notice that your mood is just better, you're more optimistic, your focus is a bit better, subtly enhanced, which is good, you're not like very stimulated focus, and it lasts a long time, like it lasts like 8-ish hours. I find it's easier to connect with people, I find it's easier to rap, I guess like my verbal fluidity is just a bit better. Very, very good compound. One of the things I didn't notice about it is I think that does give me a little bit of brain fog, which always puzzled me with some of these cognitive enhancing nootropics, things like Cystanche, things like C-Max, things like this, like 7-ADHF, they always gave me brain fog, and I didn't really think that it made sense. Finally, I know the reason why, is because a common side effect of neurogenesis is brain fog. That's why you see people, if they inject cerebral lysine, they often wake up with brain fog, and they have brain fog for the days that they do the cycles, because that is a common symptom and side effect of neurogenesis. Lero and Longevity explained it really well, except as soon as you explain it, it just made sense, because a lot of these compounds, I would just get really bad brain fog, and it didn't make sense, because I was like, this is a nootropic, this should help my brain, not hurt my brain, and just make me think like I'm stupid. Yeah, so if you take anything that increases BDNF and GF, most likely, and you experience brain fog, it is most likely because of neurogenesis. So what are the pros and cons about these compounds, particularly for 7-ADHF and 4-DMA? I'm gonna loop them in together, because they have very similar effects, one's just weaker than the other, except they are the same compound. Better mood and optimism. You just look on the brighter side of life when you take these compounds, you just laugh at things that you wouldn't normally find funny. They have a very strong antidepressant effect. People always say that you should practice the power of positive thinking, this forces you to think positive, like you're just optimistic about the future, that's a really cool thing about this compound, that it just had those really good mood effects. Better memories, another effect where you notice that you can just recall your memories a bit better, and you can articulate your words, you're a bit better able to vocalize what you're thinking internally. You know that term deemed verbal fluidity. There's also really good benefits for focus, like, but it does it in a very unique way, where it doesn't just cause you to be very tunnel vision, stimulated focus, this almost like sharpens your senses, so you're just more aware of what's going on, and you're more in your body, very acutely improve your focus, you can pay attention more. It's also very good for neuroplasticity, so the ability of your brain to rewire itself. Some of its other benefits is it increases thermogenesis, so it has fat burning benefits, powerful antioxidant, fights off free radicals, lowers stress because of its good mood effects, it actually can help prevent excitotoxicity, so overstimulation, glutaminergic neurons, which causes neurotoxicity. So the cons, so I noticed that 7-8-DHF did build tolerance quickly, which was unfortunate, and this is one of the things about this compound, because obviously you have this like external source of BDNF, so because of that your body won't produce as much if you continuously take it again and again, except there is a really easy way around this, its name is Polygala. So if you take Polygala with 7-8-DHF, 7-8-DHF down regulates these TRKB receptors, which is responsible for its BDNF action, where Polygala upregulates these receptors. There they have a really good synergy and are very good to take together to mitigate this tolerance effect with it. I also noticed with 4-DMA, I did get a bit of brain fog. A big part of the reason why you experience brain fog from compounds like this that increase BDNF is because brain fog is a common symptom of neurogenesis. Another con about it is there's not many human studies, there's only monkey and mice studies, so we can extrapolate these findings from these studies to humans, except there's no direct human studies unfortunately. So the big question I posed at the start of this video were, are these compounds safe? Looking at all the studies, all the effects, they are relatively safe compounds. If you look at the studies for 7-8-DHF, nearly in all of them it demonstrates neuroprotective action. And if we were to take an assumption based on its mechanism of action, the fact that it affects BDNF, we can assume that 7-8-DHF is a safe compound because it acts almost in the exact same way as BDNF. Unfortunately there's not really any studies on the 4-DMA 7-8-DHF, except it is basically the same compound as 7-8-DHF, so we can extrapolate the findings from 7-8-DHF to 4-DMA 7-8-DHF. That's such a mouthful, oh my god. I personally had no issue taking them long term for months at a time. Is this compound effective? Yes, very much so. Like I said before, 7-8-DHF is more mild. 4-DMA 7-8-DHF for me goes into my stimulant categories with nootropics like Draphenyl, like Bromiantain, like Phenylpterastam, because it's more of an old day nootropic, it affects you for 8-10 hours. It can be really good for rewiring your brain, breaking all the habits, making new habits. It gets a double thumbs up from me. That's the video today guys, I hope you enjoyed it. I'll see you in the next one.